Update HLD and introduce changes based on our supervisor's feedback. (#80)
ZPP-MURMURAS/ZPP_Murmuras: docs/HLD.tex

\maketitle

\section*{Introduction}
The goal of the project is to create a universal solution for processing phone screen content, such as social media posts and advertisements on websites. In addition, the processing must occur locally on the user's device to protect sensitive data.\\
This project is being created on the request of \textbf{Murmuras}, a company specialized in providing analytical data for commercial as well as scientific purposes. \\
While the proposed method itself is expected to be applicable in various domains, in our work we will focus on the task of discount coupon gathering.\\
A \textbf{discount coupon} is, in our case, a digital voucher offered to the user in the application published by supermarket chain. With the new applications of this type dynamically appearing, and existing ones evolving, it is hard to maintain a reliable data delivery pipeline that would use conventional scrapping techniques. The usage of Large Language Models (LLMs) in our solution aims to resolve this problem. \\

> Apart from that, use cases of developed method will, among others, include the task of collecting profiles of political views of users without violating privacy of their conversations thanks to the data being processed locally.

Author: done

\section*{Existing Solutions And Their Limitations}
We are not aware of any publicly available solutions that directly address our problem. There were attempts to use LLMs for web scrapping \cite{scrapegraph-ai}\cite{llm-reader}, but effective deployment of these solutions on mobile phones seems to be an unexplored ground. A notable drawback of language models used there is their very large number of parameters; for example, GPT-3 has 175 billion parameters \cite{brown2020languagemodelsfewshotlearners}.

\section*{Murmuras' Solution}
The existing prototype solution developed by Murmuras uses data in CSV format that describes the screen's content. This data is then subjected to very basic processing, e.g., removal of empty columns, and subsequently processed by ChatGPT-4 mini into JSON format. This solution has two main issues: it does not run locally on mobile devices, as the model is not available for local execution, and the data is often described incorrectly (e.g., volume is treated as the product's price).

\subsection*{Development Opportunities}

> There is a theoretical possibility to solve these problems. There are Python modules such as \textit{outlines}\cite{willard2023efficient} or \textit{LangChain}\cite{Chase_LangChain_2022}, which allow for enforcing structured output in models. The first of these works with models from \textit{HuggingFace}. This, alongside with mobile model deployemnts tools like Llama.cpp\cite{llamacpp} would allow us to perform local inference.

Author: done

\section*{Specification of the Completed Project}

> As the core part of the project, we plan to design and implement a functional solution that will be able to extract discount coupons from a data from a diverse set of mobile applications. The deployment of the solution on the Android smartphone in form of a mobile application is optional, but we require our proposal to be theoretically possible to do so. Our solution is expected to be generalizable to wider range of problems, as mentioned above. We will provide description of it that will make this generalization possible.\\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the core part of the project, we plan to design and implement a functional solution that will be able to extract discount coupons from a diverse set of mobile application data. Deploying the solution on an Android smartphone as a mobile application is optional, but our proposal must be theoretically feasible for such deployment. Our solution is expected to be generalizable to a broader range of problems, as mentioned above. We will provide a description that facilitates this generalization.\\
```

Author: done

Author: I have applied your suggestions, replaced the order of proposals and passed the text through chatgpt.

\maketitle

\section*{Introduction}
The goal of this project is to develop a universal solution for processing phone screen content, such as social media posts and online advertisements. Additionally, all processing must occur locally on the user's device to protect sensitive data.\\

> This project is being developed at the request of \textbf{Murmuras}, a company specializing in providing analytical data for both commercial and scientific purposes.\\

Author: done

While the proposed method is expected to be applicable across various domains, our work focuses on the task of gathering discount coupons.\\

A \textbf{discount coupon}, in our case, refers to a digital voucher offered to users through an application published by a supermarket chain. With new applications of this type continuously emerging and existing ones evolving, maintaining a reliable data delivery pipeline using conventional scraping techniques is challenging. Our solution leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to address this issue.\\

Beyond this, the developed method will also be applicable to tasks such as profiling users' political views without compromising their privacy, as all data processing occurs locally.

> \section*{Existing Solutions and Their Limitations}

Reviewer 2: I would not remove the computer vision research from the existing solutions, because:
1. I think this is a valid approach to this problem, and we spend some time on discussing it back in November.
2. It is the only "existing solution" that we actually researched.

Author: I have readded it

To the best of our knowledge, no publicly available solutions directly address our problem. There have been attempts to use LLMs for web scraping \cite{scrapegraph-ai}\cite{llm-reader}, but effectively deploying these solutions on mobile devices remains largely unexplored.

A notable drawback of the language models used in these approaches is their extremely large number of parameters. For instance, GPT-3 has 175 billion parameters \cite{brown2020languagemodelsfewshotlearners}, making it challenging to implement on resource-constrained devices.

\section*{Murmuras' Solution}
The existing prototype developed by Murmuras processes data in CSV format, which describes the screen's content. This data undergoes basic preprocessing, such as the removal of empty columns, before being converted into JSON format using ChatGPT-4 mini.

> However, this solution has two major limitations. First, it does not run locally on mobile devices, as the model is not available for on-device execution. Second, the data is often misinterpreted—for example, volume may be mistakenly treated as the product's price.

Author: fixed that

\subsection*{Development Opportunities}

> In theory, these problems can be addressed. Python modules such as \textit{outlines} \cite{willard2023efficient} and \textit{LangChain} \cite{Chase_LangChain_2022} allow for enforcing structured output in language models. The former is compatible with models from \textit{HuggingFace}. Combined with mobile model deployment tools like Llama.cpp \cite{llamacpp}, this would enable local inference on mobile devices.

Reviewer 2: I would put it in a different way. Right now you say that main issues are related to the performance and wrong labelling, and then say that posiible solutions involve enforcing a structured output. I'm not sure if I see a connection here.

Author: I have removed this section completely as the topics here are discussed later anyway. If you think that we should still refer to outlines directly in some place let me know.

The core objective of this project is to design and implement a functional solution capable of extracting discount coupons from a diverse range of mobile application data. While deploying the solution as a mobile application on an Android smartphone is optional, we require our approach to be theoretically feasible for such deployment. Additionally, our solution is expected to be generalizable to a broader range of problems, as outlined above. We will provide documentation to facilitate this generalization.

\section*{Challenges}

\subsection*{Hardware Requirements}

\subsubsection*{Computational Power and RAM}
Modern LLMs and data preprocessing algorithms often demand substantial computational resources \cite{LLMmobile2024}. At the same time, we aim for all processing to be performed locally on the mobile device. The challenge lies in selecting a model that is not overly resource-intensive yet remains effective for our use case. To ensure compatibility with most modern smartphones, we aim to use a model with no more than 1 billion trainable parameters \cite{li2025palmbenchcomprehensivebenchmarkcompressed}.

\subsubsection*{Disk Storage}

> The application will require several gigabytes of disk space \cite{llama32-1b-size}, as the model weights will be stored locally. However, we anticipate this will not be an issue for users, given the company's business model, where users are incentivized to install the data-gathering application on their phones.

Author: done

    w_p w_{pn} Q(c_1[\text{new\_price}], c_2[\text{new\_price}]) +  \\
    w_{pr} R(c_1[\text{percentage}], c_2[\text{percentage}]) +  \\
    w_v R(c_1[\text{validity}], c_2[\text{validity}])  \\
\end{gather*}

where:
- \( R(s_1, s_2) \) is a similarity measure between two sequences, as defined in \cite{python-seq-match}.
- \( Q(x, y) \) is \( 1 \) if \( x = y \) and \( 0 \) otherwise.

For each sample \( S_i \), we associate a multiset of expected coupons \( C_i \).
Given a multiset \( \tilde{C}_i \) obtained by the pipeline being benchmarked for an input sample, we apply the following procedure:

\begin{algorithmic}
\State $lonely_i \gets 0$
\State $similarities_i \gets []$
\For{\textbf{each} $c \in \tilde{C}_i$}
    \State $c' \gets \arg\max\limits_{c' \in C_i} S(c',c)$
    \If{$S(c',c) == 0$}
        \State $lonely_i \gets lonely_i + 1$
        \State $continue$
    \EndIf
    \State $similarities_i.append(S(c,c'))$
    \State $C_i.pop(c')$
\EndFor
\State $lonely_i += len(C_i)$
\For{$i=0$ \textbf{to} $lonely_i$}
    \State $similarities_i.append(0)$
\EndFor
\State $similarity_i \gets \text{mean}(similarities_i)$
\end{algorithmic}

> Finally, we compute the average similarity across all samples.

Author: thanks, resolving

\subsubsection*{Dataset}
For benchmarking, we selected a representative subset of the data provided by Murmuras. This dataset is relatively small, containing fewer than 200 coupons, which enables fast evaluation. To improve the reliability of the benchmark, the data is sourced from multiple applications.

\section*{Proposed Solution}

\subsection*{Input Data Format and Acquisition}
Our solution will process input data in the form of CSV files representing the XML structure underlying visible screen content. These CSV files provide information about various aspects, including the location and content of text fields as well as their hierarchical structure.

During the fine-tuning process described below, we will use data provided by Murmuras. Since fine-tuning will be performed in a supervised manner, the expected model output will be generated with the assistance of ChatGPT. At runtime, the pipeline will process data extracted from smartphone screens using a scraping tool provided by Murmuras.

> Currently, we are developing two different approaches to solving the problem.

Reviewer 3: maybe instead of writing in the present tense, we should write this in the past tense since this document will be read after we have completed this project

Author: I believe that HLD is intended to be written before developement process

Reviewer 3: maybe instead you could write something along the lines of "we decided to develop the following two approaches...". what do you think?

\paragraph{Model Selection}
After preliminary research, we decided to focus on transformer models with parameter counts ranging from 10 million to approximately 500 million. Most of the models we selected are derivatives of BERT \cite{devlin2019bertpretrainingdeepbidirectional}. The three main subtypes under consideration are:

\begin{enumerate}
    \item BERT: \textasciitilde100 million parameters
    \item DistilBERT: \textasciitilde65 million parameters
    \item ALBERT: \textasciitilde11 million parameters
\end{enumerate}

The primary advantage of these models is their relatively small size. Previous experiments \cite{LLMmobile2024} have demonstrated that the LLaMA-2 model, with 7 billion parameters, can be deployed on mobile devices. Models from the BERT family are an order of magnitude smaller, making them more suitable for our use case.

\subsubsection*{Postprocessing}
Postprocessing will involve grouping the labeled data into structured coupon representations.

\subsection*{Deployment on Mobile Devices (Optional)}

> We plan to develop a standalone mobile application or integrate the functionality into an existing one, implementing the aforementioned processing pipeline. A background service will be designed to process incoming data in real time. However, if real-time processing proves to be too resource-intensive, an alternative approach will be adopted in which the application stores the data temporarily (with an estimated daily storage requirement of approximately 15KB, assuming 15 minutes of daily coupon application usage) and processes it during off-peak hours, such as at night when the device is idle.

Reviewer 2: Hm, do we have any research/source on that other that top-of-the-head calculations?

Author: No. I am not sure how we should we back our claims here?
Describe the performed data analysis?

Reviewer 2: Lets leave it for now, if I notice it later I will worry, if not then it wasnt important anyway
